Hey, what should open your Bibles with me today to Luke chapter 19 and we're continuing our sermon series today entitled Invitations and it goes right along with what we're going to be doing in the month of March You've heard of you've heard us talk about it a lot over the last few months You heard Scott mentioned it a few moments ago about the opportunity that we have in the month of March where we're going to go out and in in recognition
in a minor way of our 70th anniversary as a church, but more importantly in recognition of the promise of Isaiah chapter 55, where it tells us that God's word will not return void.
We're going to go out into our community.
We're going to knock on every door in our community.
We're going to deliver a copy of the Word of God.
Now, you've heard me ask all of you to volunteer to be a part of this.
You heard Scott say we had about 1,000.
It's actually a little over 1,300 that have signed up to be a part of this.
We need about five or 600 more.
And so if you've not already done that, and I want to encourage you to be a part of it.
You've got the QR code on the screen.
You can take your phone out right now if you've not already done so.
Husbands and wives that, you know, in fact, I heard this week and talked with a couple of people this week that said that what they're doing actually is their effect.
It was Lou wider that they're actually each one of them have signed up.
They're each going to get a list of names and then they're going to do that together.
Now you think about, is this a heavy lift?
Is this a difficult thing?
Well, we actually yesterday sent out Ian Little, who is the guy who has been kind of orchestrating this entire project and working alongside of Matt Fleming and Rod Dempsey and the leadership of Matt Wilmington to make all of this happen.
And so Ian went out yesterday and he took a list of houses.
He went out and knocked on ten doors yesterday.
And he delivered Bibles to all of those 10 houses.
He said this.
It took him 25 minutes to do so.
And in that 25 minutes that he did it, he actually had two incredible conversations with individuals who were seeking, looking for truth.
Now think about this for a moment.
That was 25 minutes of his time.
And in that, he had the opportunity in 10 houses of having two very meaningful conversations.
That is 20% of what he did.
Now let's just think, if we can for a moment, going back to this picture of 29,000 households in our community.
If you think about the opportunity of going out and knocking on all these doors, delivering a copy of the Word of God, at the end of the day, what we look at maybe perhaps is even
10% or even 20% of the people that we have the opportunity of connecting with that in those conversations, there might be an opportunity to share the gospel, an opportunity for them to understand truth.
Think of the impact that can take place.
And so I want you to sign up.
The QR codes on the screen here, when you sign up,
You're going to get an email that thanks you for signing up.
All we're asking you to do is give us your name, address and email and phone number so that we can make sure that we can try to put you in a neighborhood in an area that is close to where you are.
That's the reason we want that information.
After you fill that out, you're going to have the opportunity then of getting an email and tell us thank you for signing up.
And then you're going to get an email next weekend.
This coming weekend, the weekend of March the 1st, Sunday, March 1st, you're going to get an email that looks like this.
And in there, you're going to get this email.
It's going to have view your assigned houses.
There's also going to be one more box that's going to be just above that view your assigned households.
So what that is going to go back, actually, guys, if you would, go back one if you would.
So you get that view of your assigned houses.
But right above it will be another box that actually is a link to some videos and some information we can give you.
To make sure you understand, like, what does this visit look like?
It's like a little bit of a training thing.
It'll take like three or four minutes for you to watch and to read.
So you'll know how to do what we're asking you to do.
After you click on that and you'll click on that view your assigned houses, then you'll go to this page.
When you get this page, you'll get the addresses that have been assigned to you.
You'll see the addresses there underneath the address there, the bottom one.
You'll see there are five little click boxes there.
One is contact.
One is refused.
One is left info.
One is no access.
One is not home.
After you make that visit, you're simply on your phone or on your computer.
You're going to click a box and just say, yes, make contact or they were not home or left info, whatever that might be.
And then every week over the next couple of weeks, we're going to have the opportunity of seeing
As we continue to grow the opportunity out in the lobby, you'll see something that looks a little bit like this, except for it to be out there, a representation that will show how many households were hitting day by day throughout the month of March so that we can celebrate together what God is going to do.
Now, you sit back and you think, well, man, I don't know what to say.
Next Sunday, we're going to talk to you about what to say.
You say, well, man, I'm not sure like if I'm able to do it, like these are too much stuff.
Basically next Sunday after you sign up, you'll come in here in the lobby after we have a time of prayer in this room.
You walk outside and you're going to pick up a bag that looks like this.
And inside of this bag, there will be some smaller bags that look like this.
And all this is is just a simple bag.
It says, love God, love people.
Inside says, it's great to meet you.
And inside of this bag is your delivery.
They're hanging the doorknob or actually give to an individual.
Inside of it, you'll find here.
You'll find the statement says, it's great to meet you.
Just information about why we're doing this.
They'll also be able to find a card that deals with all of life's issues, things that maybe they're going through, walking through where in the Bible they can find scriptures that
relate to those issues.
They're also going to find an opportunity there that talks about like the best news ever, which of course I think all of you know is the gospel.
They'll be able to see what the gospel is, a presentation there, and then of course we're going to be delivering the Word of God.
Isaiah chapter 55 says this, that the Word of God never returns void.
And so we're going to see what God will do in us simply as a church
delivering 29,000 Bibles to all of the households in this community in the city of Lynchburg.
And we're just going to see what God does.
And so if you've not signed up, it's not a big ask.
It's not a heavy lift.
It's literally something you can knock out in an hour, in an afternoon.
to be able to go out and to make an impact and to make a difference.
And I want you to be a part of it.
So if you've not signed up yet, make sure you do so.
Make sure you do that today.
Again, the QR codes on the screen.
And then I ask you to do it.
Why?
Because we are called to reach our community.
We are called to make an impact.
We are called to make a difference.
Why?
Because when we are simply being willing to be used, what God will do with that is He will use us to introduce the most powerful, most incredible, most amazing message that anyone could ever hear, the greatest gift that God has ever given to mankind, and that is the gift of the gospel.
And all that we want to do, the only reason that we're here, the reason we've existed for 70 years,
Yes to fellowship and yes to study God's Word.
Yes to have the opportunity of gathering together like we do here today.
All of those things true, but primarily our purpose and our mission and our reason as this is to go into all the world and preach the gospel, make disciples of all the nations that go to Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and to the uttermost parts of the earth, the great commission that Jesus gave to us in Matthew 28, Mark 16, Acts chapter 1, to change our world by developing Christ followers who love God and who love people.
Let's go and do that.
And today, our sermon in this invitation series goes right along with what we're talking about.
And today, the passage we're going to look at is a passage that is very, very familiar.
In fact, probably for those of you who've been in church a long time, you probably have heard this story, maybe when you were in Sunday school is a little child.
And it's the story of Zacchaeus.
How many of you when you were a child had the opportunity here in the story of Zacchaeus?
Raise your hand.
Awesome.
And so today, this is not a new story.
It's not an obscure story.
It's a familiar story.
But I hope today we'll see some additional truths that you can pull out from it.
I'm going to move this so it doesn't look like we're a messy church.
Rob, I'll throw that to you.
There we go.
And so that you can see some important things about what it means to follow Christ.
Let's go to Luke chapter 19, verse 1.
Let's read this passage together if we could.
It says, he entered Jericho and was passing through.
And there was a man named Zacchaeus who was a cheap tax collector and he was rich.
He was trying to see who Jesus was, but he was not able because of the crowd since he was a short man.
So running ahead, he climbed up a sycamore tree to see Jesus.
And since he was about to pass that way, when Jesus came to the place, he looked up and said to him, Zacchaeus, hurry, come down because today it is necessary for me to stay at your house.
So he quickly came down and welcomed him joyfully.
All who saw it began to complain.
He's gone to stay with a sinful man.
But Zacchaeus stood there and said to the Lord, look, I'll give half of my possessions to the poor.
Lord, and if I have extorted anything from anyone, I'll pay back four times as much.
Today, salvation has come to this house, Jesus seldom.
Because he too is a son of Abraham, for the son of man has come to seek and to save the lost.
Now, again, this is a familiar story talking about this guy named Zacchaeus.
Interestingly enough, it says that Zacchaeus was a sinful man.
Some translations call him a publican or a sinner very clearly in this passage here.
It talks about how he is known to be a sinner.
It's interesting that this very named Zacchaeus that his parents chose to give to him when he was a little baby was a Greek form of a Hebrew word that meant innocent and pure.
And so somewhere along the journey, Zacchaeus decided that he was not going to follow after the track of the name that his parents gave him.
And he was going to do something different.
He was going to live a different type of life.
And that's where we find the position.
We find the condition of Zacchaeus in this moment.
But in this passage, we're going to see like five different things that I want to point out today to help us kind of understand like what this passage, what this familiar story, truly how it can influence us and impact us today.
And the first point that I'll give to you today, if you're taking notes as this, is that all can see Jesus.
Being able to see Jesus is not an exclusive gift.
It's not reserved for the special.
It's not reserved for those who are sitting in a church.
It's not reserved for those who were born in a certain place.
It's not reserved for those whose skin color is a certain color.
It's not reserved for this group or that group.
All can see Jesus.
We go back to this passage again in verse one.
And as it tells us here, it says that He, talking about Jesus, He entered Jericho after He had been teaching, preaching, and healing.
He entered Jericho, Jesus is speaking up, as he was passing through on his way up to Jerusalem, and there was a man there named Zacchaeus, who was a chief tax collector.
Now that phrase, chief tax collector, meant this, as he actually was the boss over all the other tax collectors.
Now, let's not get confused here and think of him being like as an agent for the IRS.
This was not a government job.
This was not something that he was hired to do, and he was fulfilling his responsibility, a job description that a government entity had laid out for him, and he had applied for a job and gotten a job.
This is actually more like a franchise.
And so this franchise, if you will, was an idea that at some point, Zacchaeus made the decision that he wanted to be a tax collector.
Which by the way, tax collectors in that day, and this one, the people are not great people.
They're not people you want to hang out with.
It's not like you celebrate.
Today I get to meet for the tax collector.
That's not something we want to do.
Am I right about that?
No, I'm not saying tax collecting people or IRS people are bad.
But man, anyway, that's another thing.
We'll get to that later.
Okay.
So he chose that he was going to have this franchise.
And this franchise basically was as he purchased or got the rights to collect all the taxes in an area.
And then his responsibility was to hire a bunch of people under him.
It was like this multi-level marketing scam.
Again, a lot like the IRS.
And so he created this scam, this setup, where he was the chief tax collector.
There were a bunch of other tax collectors underneath him, and their responsibility was to go out and to collect money from all the people who lived in that region.
And they took the money from, they could choose how much to take.
Because their responsibility in this franchise, which was really nothing more than a business, is they had to send a certain amount of money to Rome for that area.
And everything else on top of it, they were able to keep.
Everything else on top of that money that went to Rome, they were able to keep for themselves.
And so he was the chief tax collector.
He was the guy who was responsible for this area.
And man, it says here, he was a guy who was very rich.
In other words, he had spent time, and this passage later in the passage bears it out, that he had spent time figuring out how to fleece the flock, if you will.
He had figured out how to get money from people and keep it for himself.
And it goes on to say that he was trying to see who Jesus was.
He was trying to get a glimpse of this guy named Jesus.
He probably heard maybe that this guy had come to town, and if you go back, you don't need to do work.
I'll look at it today, but if you were to go back into chapter 18,
Jesus had spent some time sharing some parables and some teachings but then in the last part of chapter 18 he healed a blind man.
And this happened in Jericho, and when he was healed, that man, all of a sudden, was following Jesus, probably like proclaiming and exclaiming what an amazing person Jesus was.
So the crowds were all gathering around because of this amazing kind of, in a way, like a sideshow picture of this amazing man who had come to town, who'd come to Jericho, and was doing all this incredible stuff, probably.
the guy who again was responsible for that area.
The tax collector in that area had heard about this man named Jesus and he said he wanted to see who Jesus was, but he wasn't able because of the crowd since he was a short man.
Now let's give you a picture here.
I got a little photo that I'll put on the screen here.
This is kind of what was going on.
So there was this big crowd that gathered together because they knew that Jesus was making his way through the town.
It says here, we just read it.
He was passing through.
And everybody wanted to see him.
Probably a lot of people were coming wanting to get healed because they had seen what had taken place with a blind man.
There were probably a lot of people who wanted maybe to experience something.
Maybe they had a sickness.
Maybe they had a disease.
Maybe they had a child who was sick.
And so people were gathering everywhere.
And then here's this guy, this little guy named Zacchaeus that nobody liked and nobody wanted to be around.
He was a sinner.
He was a tax collector.
He was the the dreads of society.
No one wanted to be around him.
And he's kind of hanging out behind the crowd and he can't see
anything.
He can't see Jesus and he just simply wanted to see who this man Jesus really was.
And so he's sitting there in this situation.
He's leaning in the best that he can, but he still can't see past the crowd.
And so while this part of the passage tells us that anyone can see Jesus, the second part of this passage tells us this, that it actually might take a little bit of work on our part.
It actually might require, it might take some action.
Look what it says in verse four.
And so, running ahead, Zacchaeus climbed up a sycamore tree to see Jesus since he was about to pass that way.
And so, what happened is Zacchaeus, in that picture you saw a moment ago, he wasn't able to see through the crowd.
And so, he kind of figured out, he was a smart guy.
He figured out the path and the road that Jesus was going to be walking.
And so, he made his way around, probably going back on some side streets.
probably going back on a different parallel road or parallel path to get around some of the people and get around some of the crowds, get around some of the houses and businesses that might have been there because he knew that on this road there was this tree that was right down there.
And that tree was a tree that he knew that he could get up inside that tree, on top of that tree, and he could look down over the crowd and he could see Jesus.
And so he made his way back, he found that sycamore tree and he climbed the tree.
How many of you sitting in this room right now
or sing in the song in your head.
Zacchaeus was a wee little man, a wee little man was he.
He climbed up the Sycamore tree to see what he could.
How many of you were singing that song?
Be honest, yeah.
And running through our minds, we remember back when we were kids.
And so that's what Zacchaeus did.
And so while we've seen that anyone can see Jesus, we also recognize that it actually takes a step.
It takes action.
It takes something that must happen.
And it's kind of like a step that's child one.
In fact, I read this week a quote from Warren Wiersby who said this,
that in the east or in this area, this region of the world, it was very unusual for a man to run especially a wealthy government official.
And yet Zacchaeus ran down the street like a little boy following a parade and then he even climbed a tree.
Curiosity is certainly characteristic of most children.
And Zacchaeus was motivated by curiosity that day.
Jesus said, whoever shall not receive the kingdom of God, like a little child, shall in no way enter therein from Luke chapter 18, perhaps more than anything else.
Listen to these words that weren't where to be wrote.
It is pride that it keeps many successful people from trusting Christ.
Now think about that statement for a moment.
Zacchaeus was there.
Go back to that picture, if you will, where he was not able to see anybody, that he was looking back and he was behind the backs of all the crowd.
You see that he couldn't see anything.
a wealthy man, a man of stature, a man recognized by the government, a man that had a lot of power.
And yet here he is, he can't see.
Now listen, if pride would have played a role in his day, he certainly would have run, would not have run up the road and the side roads.
He certainly would not have gone into climb a tree.
That was beneath him.
That was something that, that a man of his stature, a man of his power, a man of his wealth, would never have done.
And as Warren Wiersby says, that there are so many people
still today who allow their power, their status, their wealth all encompassed in the word pride to keep them from simply looking for Jesus.
You see, anyone can see Jesus, but it does take a step.
It takes a step like in this childlike faith that we see in the story where he was actually willing to actually do something that was beneath him, willing to do something that
that people might criticize him for because of the power of the man that he wanted to see.
And so anybody can see Jesus.
It might take a step on our part, but understand this, Jesus will always see you.
The third point, Jesus will always see us.
Look what it says again, verse 5.
And so when Jesus came to the place, he looked up
And he said to him, Zacchaeus hurry and come down because today it is necessary for me to stay at your house.
Now we saw that photo a moment ago, Zacchaeus behind the crowd and couldn't see.
Now we got another photo here that I'll put up of Zacchaeus actually up in the tree.
And Zacchaeus is now above the crowd.
He's able to see as Jesus is making his way through the path.
But it's interesting in this passage.
It says that when Jesus came to the place, he looked up.
Now,
It doesn't tell us that someone had to point out this crazy, tracked tax collector that was up in the tree.
No one had to come to Jesus and say, hey, you're not going to believe this, but this guy in town, this guy who's like a sinner, he's a public, a bad dude, he's actually climbed up in the tree and he's waiting for you.
The Secret Service was not coming to take this guy down because he was a threat to Jesus making his way through the crowd.
It says that when Jesus came to the place instantly, he looked up because he knew exactly where Zacchaeus was.
He knew exactly where Zacchaeus had placed himself.
He knew that Zacchaeus was up in that tree.
And the words from Jesus' lips that day were just simply this.
Hurry, come down because today it is necessary for me to stay at your house.
They say, what does that passage mean?
It is necessary for me to stay at your house.
Like, what does that even mean?
Well, I think it's a twofold reason, a twofold meaning in that passage that we can take away from it.
The statement is necessary.
We'll read this again in verse 10 of this passage in a few moments.
But Jesus knew what his mission was on this earth.
Jesus knew his mission while it was certainly something that he did and he wanted to do.
His mission was not to heal.
His mission was not simply to teach lessons and to teach in the synagogue.
His mission was not to come and to read scrolls in the synagogue on a Saturday.
His mission was not simply to impress people or encourage people or to actually help people in their situations.
It was not to guide them on their life's path.
That was not his mission.
While all things that were important and he did all of those things, his mission, as verse 10 says, was to seek and to save that which is lost.
And so when Jesus saw Zacchaeus up in that tree and he said, it is necessary for me to come to your house today, what Jesus was saying is my job, my responsibility, my mission is to come after you with the power of God.
That same thing is true here today.
That same thing is true even in this culture now 2,000 years later, that the mission
God's call, God's plan for each and every one of us has not changed since Christ died on the cross and they was buried and he rose again and ascended into heaven.
His mission, his call, his path is just simply this.
It is to seek and to save that which is lost.
And for whatever reason, and I honestly don't even know the reason, I don't know why he chose to do so, but God chose to use us to help carry out that mission.
And we're going to be talking about that in the coming weeks as people that Jesus called to follow Him and He would make them fishers of men.
We'll talk about that next week in the coming weeks.
But that is for the reason for whatever reason I don't know.
But God shows us to help make that mission, help accomplish that mission.
And so here today we sit in a situation where there are lost people everywhere.
There are lost people in our families.
There are lost people in our neighborhoods.
There are lost people in our city.
Certainly lost people in our world.
And God has called us to be faithful.
God has called us to be passionate.
God has called us to go out and to present the power and the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ to the world.
And in our context, right here at home, that's why we're asking you to be a part of what we're doing in the month of March.
We're not going out for a program.
We're not going out even to build our church, to grow our church.
We're not.
This is not a church building thing.
It's not a church growth initiative.
What this really is simply is a kingdom building initiative.
It's an initiative that I believe God has laid on our hearts to go out into the community where God has placed us, to our Jericho, if you will, and to make sure that we're doing everything we possibly can to get people to see Jesus, to have people have the opportunity to see who Jesus is,
And what he has done for them, why?
Because Jesus will always see you no matter where you are.
The fourth part of this passage we see is this.
He will always accept you just as you are.
Jesus will always see.
Just as he saw Zacchaeus in that tree, he didn't need someone to point him out.
He knew exactly where he was.
But the cool thing is not only that he sees Zacchaeus, the center, the publican,
the chief tax collector, the person that no one wanted to be around, he saw him and he accepted him.
Look back in this passage, you will, verse 6.
So he, Zacchaeus, quickly came down and he welcomed him joyfully.
In other words, he was so overwhelmed.
He was thrilled.
He couldn't believe the fact that Jesus, this man that everyone had been talking about, wanted to see him.
He welcomed him joyfully.
And all who saw it began to complain.
In other words, the crowd began to complain because Jesus would dare talk to this man that no one liked.
They complained he's gone to stay with a sinful man.
He's gone to stay with a sinful man.
Now this is an important
part of the passage and we have to connect again back to Luke chapter 18 to truly understand.
Because here when Zacchaeus came down that tree and when he walked up to Jesus, no doubt Jesus probably embraced him.
There was probably a moment when Jesus wrapped his arms around him and welcomed him and showed him affection and showed him that he cared for him and showed him that he loved him and he accepted him for who he was.
And so in that moment, when that happened, all the people who were the ones who were throwing all the accolades up and the ones who were celebrating this man named Jesus who had healed the blind man just moments or maybe a day or so before that all of a sudden these people are looking at Jesus and Jesus is there embracing this man that was a sinner.
He was a publican.
Nobody liked him.
No one wanted to be around him.
This is a man who was a thief.
He had stolen from them and every one of them were shocked.
The crowd was taken aback.
They couldn't believe that Jesus would actually spend time with his man.
Why in the world would he do such a thing?
And again, we've got to connect it back to Luke chapter 18, to a story that Jesus shared.
And in that story, back in Luke chapter 18, beginning with verse 11, he tells the story of a Pharisee and a tax collector.
Again, in the teachings and the lessons that Jesus was giving to his disciples and others who were coming along, he talks about a Pharisee
and a tax collector just briefly before this all took place.
And the Pharisee, Jesus said, was standing and praying like this about himself.
God, I thank you that I'm not like other people, greedy, unrighteous, adulterers, or even like this tax collector.
I fast twice a week.
I give a tenth of everything that I get, but the tax collectors stand in a far off
would not even raise his eyes to heaven, but he kept striking his chest and saying, God have mercy on me, a sinner.
Jesus went on to say in verse 14, I tell you, this one went down to his house justified rather than the other, because everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but the one who humbles himself will be exalted.
You see the picture that Jesus was teaching in chapter 18, all of a sudden, came true.
It's almost as if Jesus knew what was going to take place when he walked through Jericho.
It's almost as if Jesus knew that the tax collector, the chief tax collector in that community, would want to see him.
It's almost as if Jesus knew that the chief tax collector was going to climb a tree so that he could see Jesus.
It's almost as if Jesus knew that that tax collector would want to be in the presence of Jesus.
In the moments, hours or maybe days before Jesus teaches all those gathered around him.
Yeah, there's these two different kinds of people.
You see, he got the Pharisee over here.
And the Pharisee is the guy who stands up and he makes everyone look at him and think that he's very holy.
He talks about how good he is and all the good things that he does.
He talks about how he is worthy.
someone to be celebrated, someone to be admired, someone to be respected because of his fate and because of how he serves and because of what he does.
The person who puts on a really, really good show about his Christian life and his following after, of course, in this time, his Jewish faith.
Someone who really puts on a good show.
But then there's this other guy and this other guy is a sinner.
This other guy is a tax collector.
And there's text with lecture sitting there and he's not trying to say, look at me.
He's not trying to say, look at all that I have.
He's not trying to put on a show at all.
What he's doing is he's crying out to God, have mercy on me of center.
And so Jesus taught the lesson and then he showed the lesson in the same city where he embraced the tax collector because that tax collector truly wanted to see
Jesus to take away the lesson for us on this is simply this is that it doesn't matter who you are or what you are what you've done or how you've acted or how you've lived that Jesus always has room for you that Jesus loves you for who you are and who you are is a person for whom Jesus died a person for whom Jesus rose again
And when he makes this declaration again at the end of this passage, we're going to read it again in just a moment.
And he says, my mission, my job, my responsibility is to seek and to save that which is lost.
He's talking about us.
Wow.
And so just as in that day, we have in this day, people who spend far more time trying to make the world look at them and see how good they are, rather than spending our time
trying to help the world see how good God is, helping the world see who Jesus is and what Christ has done.
Man, what a powerful statement that Jesus accepts us as we are.
And let me just ask a quick question.
I'm not asking for a show of hands.
I'm not asking for a testimony time here, but knowing you, and I'm not talking about me knowing you.
I'm talking about you knowing you and me knowing me.
Aren't you glad that Jesus accepts us just as we are?
Because I have a feeling there's probably some people in this room that have got quite a past.
There's probably some people in this room who have messed up over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again.
Aren't you glad Jesus accepts us as we are?
But there's one more catch here that's important.
The last part of this passage and the first point, the fifth point of this is this, is yes, you know, anybody can see Jesus and yes, no question about it that it might take a step to get to that place.
And yes, we know that Jesus always sees us and he accepts us just as we are.
But the last part of this passage that I want to point out today is just simply this, we have to turn to him.
We have to repent.
as our response to the great gift that Jesus has given.
Look at verse eight, but Zacchaeus stood there and said to the Lord, look, I'll give half of my possessions to the poor.
And if I've extorted anything or stolen from anyone, I'll pay them back four times as much that Jesus said today, salvation has come to this house.
Jesus told him because he too is the son of Abraham for the son of man has come to seek and to save that which is lost.
Now, this account that we read here doesn't recount the words that Jesus spoke.
It doesn't say what Jesus said when he got to the house and he sat down with Zacchaeus and others who were gathered in the place.
It doesn't have the words there about the message that Jesus preached or the invitation that Jesus extended.
It literally was nothing more than the fact that Jesus said today, I have to go to your house to see you.
And then secondly, we now see that as a result of whatever Jesus did in between that moment and this moment that Zacchaeus repented, he turned, he changed his course, he changed his actions,
changed his heart because he believed and trusted in Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior.
He said, man, I'll give whatever it takes.
Those are stolen from in this community.
The people who were just mad about me a few moments ago who were complaining to you about me.
If I've stolen from them, and by the way, the fact that he brought it up tells us that he has stolen from them.
And he says, I'll return to them fourfold what I stole from them.
And of course, that goes all the way back to Exodus chapter 22.
You read Exodus chapter 22, they're told that, hey, if you steal something from, it talks about a sheep.
If you steal sheep from an individual, that person will then have to make it up back to that person to give him four sheep in return.
So he was actually saying, I will do whatever it takes.
And so the posture, the position that Zacchaeus put himself in was just simply this, God, I'm a sinner and I'm sorry.
God, I will not do it again.
Forgive me and save me.
And what was Jesus's response?
Man, it was easy.
It was simple and it was quick.
Today, salvation has come.
Salvation has come.
You see the story that Zacchaeus had here in his life was just simply this.
Man, he had done all the things that he thought that he was supposed to do in life.
He had accomplished great success.
He had done a
A lot of powerful things.
He'd made a lot of money.
He was in a position of great power, but that he recognized all those things are unimportant without Christ.
But all those things have no meaning whatsoever without Christ.
He knew in that moment that everything had changed.
J. Vernon McGee said it this way.
Zacchaeus showed his faith by his works.
And I want you to hear this.
He did not talk about his faith.
He demonstrated it.
The world is not listening for something today.
It is looking for something today.
Now, how does that play back into our position today?
What it tells us is this, if the world outside, the world that is out there that is lost,
the world that is looking at us as followers of Christ, people who claim to be believers and Christians and followers of Christ.
They're not looking to hear what we say.
They're looking to see how we live.
They're looking to see that something was different.
Now we don't hear anymore about Zacchaeus's life after this moment.
We don't know what took place after this conversion experience.
We don't know what the rest of the story is.
And I think that's actually purposeful.
I think the reason that we don't see what happened next is because what happened next is exactly what God desired for Zacchaeus to do.
That in this moment of conversion, the transformation of repentance, that Zacchaeus simply walked out from that moment and for the rest of his days, he was a changed man.
That he was a new creation, all the old that passed away and everything had been made new.
because of Christ.
Can the same be said of us?
You see, when we come to a place in our lives where we recognize, man, there's Jesus and man, we need Him and we know that we're sinners and we need a Savior and He's the only one that can save us.
When Jesus said to John chapter 14, I'm the way, the truth and the life and no man comes to the Father except for me when we come to that place and recognize that truth.
What should not happen
is an acceptance of that truth, an acceptance of that gift, an acceptance of that gospel, and then immediately going back and living exactly the way that we did before.
You see, there should be a transformation.
There should be something new because of what Christ had done in our lives.
He was a changed man because of an invitation from Jesus.
Zacchaeus was a changed man because he had the opportunity of hearing the words from Jesus as if Jesus himself had knocked on the door of his heart.
And he was willing to open that door and let Jesus in.
You see, that's the power of the gospel.
The power of the gospel is the greatest invitation you'll ever receive.
It's invitation that's not limited.
It's not an invitation that is exclusive.
It's not an invitation as some might believe that was reserved for only the special people that chosen that God had set apart.
It's an invitation, as Jesus said, to seek and to save that which is lost.
And that is an inclusive message.
It's a message that is available to every human
who has ever lived, who's alive, and who ever will live until the time of Christ.
That is the story, and that is the picture.
Now I read this week, I did a little bit of research, and I read an article by a lady, and full disclosure, I have no idea who she is.
Her name is Jennifer Purcell.
I have no idea if what kind of church she goes to, I don't know any idea of whether she is a person that
you know that that and all the things that I don't know so if she's like somebody bad forgive me but I know this this article that she wrote was a really good one about this story because what she did is she pointed out something in the story that I gotta be honest with you probably no one in this room has ever even thought about because again when you go back to those two pictures and guys get those two pictures ready for me if you would if you go back to the first picture that we see on the screen that that we showed earlier today where
Zacchaeus was blocked behind all the people that were in front.
We know that that crowd was keeping him from seeing Jesus.
And then you go to the second picture and you see that Jesus inclined up in the tree and there he was able to see as Jesus passed by.
What she pointed out in her article, and again, I had no idea who she is, but I know this, what she wrote was powerful.
That in our culture today and in Christianity today, we have a choice to make.
that either we're going to be the kind of people who are like the crowd who are keeping the people outside from seeing Jesus, or we're going to be like the tree, that we're going to do everything possibly that we can to get people into position to see Jesus.
You see the correlation there?
You see the two different differences?
The differences there that we just see in that
article that Jennifer Purcell wrote.
She said, listen, people, you've got a choice to make.
Are you going to be like the crowd that blocks people from Jesus and the way that you live and the way that you act?
This morning I send a text out to a lot of our men in our church.
We have a little text group that I send out
You know, just random thoughts that I send out.
And sometimes I do it every week.
AJ Palais, like, oh, please do it this week.
And sometimes it might be like nine days.
Sorry, AJ, forgive me.
But I send out this text.
I still went out this morning.
And I said this.
I was preaching on this passage.
And I said these words.
I said, there's only three kind of people in the church.
Three kind of people in the church.
The kind of people who are pointing people to Christ.
The kind of people who don't really care.
Or were the kind of people that are blocking people from seeing Christ.
By the way that we live and the way that we act.
I just asked the question, so which one are you?
I got a response from that Texas morning from Doug Faulkner and Doug might be in the room somewhere.
And he wrote back and he said, man, for two and a half years, I've joined up with a group that goes out on Tuesday nights and knocking on doors in our community and sharing the gospel.
And he said, I want you to know, it's the greatest joy of my life when I have the opportunity of knocking on a door and sharing the gospel with someone and someone gets saved.
Greatest joy of my life, Doug Faulkner said this morning as a response to that text.
So the question is like, which one are you?
Are you the person that's like the crowd blocking?
Or are you the person that's like the tree?
that through the way that we live and the way that we act and the actions that we take are helping to elevate people to the place where they can truly see Jesus for who he is.
That's why we're going to knock on doors in March is because I would like for this church to be full of people who are like trees.
And I'm not talking like the trees that we saw in the Super Bowl halftime show, okay?
I'm not talking about that junk, right?
I'm talking about trees who will do whatever is necessary.
to get the people who are blocked by the crowd, and blocked by the hypocrisy, and blocked by the actions, blocked by the apathy that was within the local church today.
And then we would be people who would lift people up so they could see Jesus, that we would do whatever it is possible to be the people who will point people to Christ.
So which one are you?
And I pray.
And I know God's desire is that you would be like the tree and doing everything that you possibly can to point people to Christ.
Let's pray.
Father, today we thank you for who you are.
God, we thank you that you are the hope for the world.
God, we thank you that Jesus came to seek and to save that which is lost because that means us.
Because of what Christ did when he came, when he died on the cross, when he was nailed to that tree, and when he was buried, and then three days later, rising victoriously from the grave, that through trusting and believing that Jesus is your Son who died in Rose again, turning from our sin, turning from the actions that have precluded us from experiencing your salvation, God, and embracing this power, this message, this gift,
that we can be safe.
God, I thank you for it.
And I pray that right now if there's someone here watching or listening who hasn't done so, that right now will be the moment today will be the day.
Whether heads bowed with their eyes closed and a moment our team is going to gather here as we always do.
As always, the altar is open.
As always, our team is here.
We'd love to talk with you.
If you're here today and you don't know Christ, I'm telling you, I'm telling you, I'm telling you, it's the only hope you have.
It's the only hope you have.
Maybe you think money is your hope.
Maybe you think power is your hope.
Maybe you think status is your hope.
Your job is your hope.
Your education is your hope.
Sometimes even your family is your hope.
I'm telling you, the only hope you have is knowing and believing that Jesus is the Son of God who died and rose again to save you.
So today the invitation is to say, if you don't know Christ, if you don't know for sure,
And I mean a hundred percent sure, like I mean no doubt, sure, that in a moment when we stand together exactly, it's something that invites you to come down and talk to one of our team members here and just simply say, I want to know for sure today that I'm a child of God.
They'd love to talk with you about that.
Maybe you want to come and kneel here in prayer about some other situation or some other challenge.
Maybe you want to leave a prayer request here.
There are prayer request cards that you can use on the front of the altar.
Maybe you want to come and join our church family or comfort baptism.
whatever today, whatever today that God is speaking and telling you to do.
Now I encourage you to view it.
So as we stand together, Zach's going to lead us through.
We're just going to sing this song one time.
And as we do, the altars open and I encourage like no one, no one make your way to the doors, only make your way to the front.
I promise you, we're going to be done in less than three minutes.
And let's
Answer the call that God is laying on your heart right now.
Let's stand together.
Exactly this, if you move the way is truth and the life.
You're the well I never run by.
I'm the bridge and you are the vine.
God, today we thank you that you are the vine, that we can connect to.
God, that we can lean into.
God, that you are the power, the source, the one that we have confidence in.
God, that we know that we are nothing without you.
It's a God I pray that today that we would live with that confidence.
But more importantly, I pray that we would share in that confidence that we would allow
God, what you have done in our lives to be the catalyst for us to go and let others know what they've done, what they could do, and what they could experience if they would simply trust Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior.
God, I pray that you would use us today.
God, thank you for who you are.
In Jesus' name we pray.
Amen.
Before you leave, before you leave, I want to make sure we're going to put the QR code back up.
Make sure you sign up.
Make sure you sign up for our visitation time.
in the month of March.
30 minutes, 40 minutes, whatever it is, it's going to be something you want to be a part of.
Secondly, this Thursday night at 730 in the Vine Center is the International Collegiate Day of Prayer gathering.
It's going to be broadcast around the globe and you're invited to be there.
We want you to come out to pray with our team.
We've got Cliff Connectley's going to be here.
Jonathan Pecluta, Bryce, a lot of other people will be here.
It's going to be an incredible opportunity for us to come together and recognize that nothing of eternal significance is ever accomplished apart from prayer.
So come out to the Vine Center Thursday night, 730, and we'll pray together.
God bless you and have a great, great day.
All the remains open.
Thank you for worshiping with us today.
We're so glad that you've joined us.
If you prayed to receive Christ today, we'd love to hear from you.
We want to help you as you begin your new faith journey in Christ.
Simply send an email to pastor at trbc.org.
If you've never accepted God's free gift of salvation, the forgiveness of sins made possible by the death and resurrection of Jesus, you can do that today by simply asking Him to save you.
If you'd like to know more, we're here to help you.
Just reach out to us and we'll provide you with some next steps.
Here at Thomas Road, our mission is to change our world by developing Christ followers who love God and love people.
If you'd like to help us fulfill that mission by giving to our ministry, go to trbc.org and make your contribution today.
Your gifts make it possible for us to share the life-changing message of God's love.